1. What does Netdata monitor?
Netdata monitors the real-time performance and health of systems and applications. It collects metrics like:

CPU usage
Memory usage
Disk I/O
Network traffic
System processes
Docker containers
Web servers, databases, and more via plugins

 2. How do you view real-time metrics?
Netdata provides a web-based dashboard accessible via a browser:

http://<server-ip>:19999
It auto-refreshes charts and shows metrics with per-second granularity in real time.

3. What is a collector?
A collector in Netdata is a plugin or script that collects specific metrics from the system or services.
Types include:

Internal collectors: CPU, RAM, Disk, etc.
External plugins: For MySQL, Redis, Nginx, Apache, Docker, etc.

 4. How is Netdata different from Prometheus?

Feature	Netdata	Prometheus
Purpose	Real-time monitoring & visualization	Time-series metric collection
Dashboard	Built-in and real-time	Needs external tools like Grafana
Alerting	Built-in	Needs Alertmanager
Data retention	Short-term	Long-term storage available
Setup	Very easy	Requires setup of exporters

5. What are some performance KPIs to watch?
Key Performance Indicators:

CPU Load & Utilization

Memory Usage

Disk Read/Write IOPS

Network Throughput

System Uptime

Docker container stats (CPU, Memory)

Application-specific metrics (MySQL QPS, Nginx requests, etc.)

 6. How to deploy Netdata on a VM?
Quick deployment using Docker:


sudo docker run -d --name=netdata \
-p 19999:19999 \
--cap-add SYS_PTRACE \
--security-opt apparmor=unconfined \
netdata/netdata
Alternatively, install using the kickstart script:


bash <(curl -Ss https://my-netdata.io/kickstart.sh)

7. How does Netdata alerting work?
Netdata comes with built-in alarms based on thresholds.

Alerts can be configured in health.d/ files.

Supports notifications via:

Email

Slack

Discord

PagerDuty and more

You can edit thresholds, duration, and recipients.

8. What is a dashboard in this context?
A dashboard is a web-based UI provided by Netdata that:

Visualizes system metrics using charts

Auto-refreshes in real-time (per second)

Categorizes views by CPU, RAM, Disk, Docker, etc.

Helps in identifying bottlenecks and abnormal patterns quickly
